[Music]
sixteen facts that might save your life
one day we are all familiar with life's
main indispensable safety rules however
sometimes you may find yourself facing
an unexpected situation and makes you
feel confused and at a loss for what to
do here are some important facts that
might one day save your life
pay attention to fact number two as
knowing this rule has already saved many
lives sixteen how to recognize a
poisonous snake it's best to keep away
from snakes but you nevertheless do well
to know the signs that indicate whether
you've been confronted with a venomous
member of the species or not here are
the signs of a poisonous snake the
abdominal side of the tail is covered
with non bifurcated scales its pupils
are similar to those of a cat non
dangerous snakes have round pupils the
divide between the head and the neck is
very distinct if viewed from above of
course there are exceptions to every
rule and only an expert can confirm
whether a snake is dangerous or not
however in most cases these rules are an
excellent guide
[Music]
fifteen never use a cell phone while
walking Health and Safety consultant
note that combining walking and using
your phone proved too big a challenge
for our brain this can cause you to lose
track of your surroundings becoming
blind to any possible dangers such as a
speeding car that might suddenly come
your way
14 adjust your car's mirrors to
eliminate blind spots and driving you
need to adjust your car's mirrors
correctly adjust the side mirrors in
such a way as to be barely able to see
the edges of your vehicle this
rearrangement will help you eliminate
any blind spots in the side zone
position your rear-view mirror so as
always to be able to see any car that
comes up behind you to ensure the mirror
readjustments effectiveness do it
directly from the driver's seat 13 have
the right clothes for cold weather
remember that what skin gives off heat
much faster so it's important to keep
your skin dry for as long as possible
ensure that your body temperature does
not fall too quickly by wearing woolen
clothes such clothes are excellent at
absorbing moisture cotton and other
fabrics are poor moisture absorbers
wearing clothes made from such materials
will cause you to freeze in no time at
all
[Music]
twelve inflate your lifejacket after
exiting the aircraft this is especially
true in a case of emergency water
landing inflating your lifejackets
inside a rapidly submerging airplane
will cause you to float up to the cabin
feeling unable to move without help the
right thing to do is to take a deep
breath and swim out of the airplane with
your life jackets still deflated you
should pull the inflation cord only when
you're safely out of the plane
[Music]
eleven how to prevent the danger of
choking you can prevent the risk of
choking on a piece of food by learning
the Heimlich maneuver in fact medics
advise everyone to learn this it might
prove vital and saving yourself or
others from choking just follow the
sequence of actions place your fist some
sign in just above the person's navel
press the fist tightly with your other
hand and move it upwards applying strong
pressure to their ribcage repeat such
quick upward and inward breath until you
dislodge the objects blocking their
airway if none of those mentioned above
actions produce an effect lean the
person over a fixed flat object such as
a table edge chair or railing then press
their abdomen just above the navel
against the edge to produce a quick
upward pressure repeat until the object
is expelled 10 always carry anti allergy
pills you never know when an allergic
reaction might strike make sure always
to have anti-allergy antihistamine drugs
at hand this could prove crucial in
helping yourself or others especially if
you're planning on going camping or
preparing for a long trip
9 remember the rule of three bear in
mind that your body's endurance limits
are most often determined by the rule of
three as numerous studies have shown on
average people can live three minutes
without air three hours without shelter
in extreme weather conditions three days
without water and three weeks without
food eight how to put out a grease fire
in a case of vegetable oil Catching Fire
on a gas stove
firefighters warned never to use water
when trying to extinguish burning fat or
oil water particles will immediately end
up at the bottom of the pan and begin to
evaporate which will make the flames
even stronger the correct action is to
cover the hot pan with something as this
will cut off the fire supply of heat and
oxygen 7 never remove a sharp object
from a wound medical experts say that
under no circumstances should you remove
a knife or any other sharp object from a
wound as long as the blade stays in the
wound it prevents cleaning possibly the
most dangerous consequence of any
stabbing what you should do is try to
minimize the bleeding even further as
you wait for medical help to arrive
six be careful during takeoff and
landing according to researchers 80% of
plane crashes occur during these
specific time periods the best way to
behave is to remain expert village and
focus on memorizing your required
actions during an emergency so you need
to be extra careful the first three
minutes after takeoff and the last eight
minutes before landing five if caught in
a fire stay close to the ground experts
note that the greatest threat during a
fire comes from carbon monoxide fumes
not burn to avoid inhaling toxic smoke
try to stay as close to the floor as
possible right until you vacate the
danger area for if you suddenly feel
unwell only ask one person for help
you should only ask one person for help
in a public place because of a
well-documented psychological phenomenon
known as diffusion of responsibility to
put it simply you've got much better
chances of receiving assistance from one
particular person and from a whole crowd
of people
three always carry a powerful flashlight
personal safety experts recommend this
simple gadget as an effective weapon in
case of stalking or sudden ambush if you
notice the suspicious-looking person who
is preparing to attack you shine a
powerful flashlight directly into his or
her face as a result your adversary will
be temporarily disoriented allowing you
to make an escape to memorize the rules
of conduct in case of fire all too often
when faced with a never before
experienced crisis we tend to freeze up
and do nothing to save ourselves
that is why survival specialists always
advise to check out the emergency exit
maps in any building you have into
frequent best to do it beforehand and
not wait for a possible emergency to
occur 1 always carry documents that
verify your identity make sure to always
carry some ID papers on your person
these documents should include medical
information such as your blood type
allergic reaction etc this way if
something unexpected occurs even a
complete stranger will be able to offer
you quick assistance also don't forget
to create a list of personal contacts
phone numbers of people that need to be
alerted in case of an emergency
you may never experience some of these
situations in life but it's always
better to be warned in advance if you've
enjoyed the video hit that thumbs up
button and if you're visiting our
channel for the first time click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life